MONOGRAPH
   METODE 45
Metode Science Studies Journal , 15(7). University of Valencia (2025).
eISSN: 2174-9221.
Submitted: 05/03/2025. Approved: 19/06/2025.
https://doi.org/10.7203/metode.15.30514
EXPLAINABLE ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE 
AND ITS KEY ROLE IN EDUCA TION
Promoting critical thinking and autonomy in the classroom
Francisco J. Bellas
This article provides an introduction to explainable artificial intelligence and discusses its main 
implications for education. It addresses two basic questions: Why do users of AI systems need 
explanations? Can such advanced technology be trusted without them? In this text, these two 
questions are answered by briefly reviewing the technical foundations of AI at the root of its 
unreliability, and how explainable AI may offer solutions, encouraging critical use and control 
of these tools. In the case of education, explanations are fundamental to ensure real human 
autonomy in the use of AI tools for teaching and learning.
Keywords: explainable artificial intelligence, critical thinking, artificial intelligence in education, 
artificial intelligence ethics, Artificial Intelligence Act.
 ■ A BRIEF INTRODUCTION
Explainable artificial intelligence (XAI) is a subfield 
of artificial intelligence (AI) that aims to provide 
explanations for why a given AI-based system makes 
a decision or provides a result 
(TechDispatch, 2023). The search 
for meaningful explanations is 
not new in the field of AI, but 
until now it has mainly been a 
technical issue for algorithm 
developers seeking to increase the 
reliability of the results produced 
by their systems in order to 
improve acceptance among users 
(Ali et al., 2023). However, the 
rise of AI in recent years has made it a general-use 
digital tool, giving rise to new considerations in the 
field of explainability and its impact on the population 
(Longo et al., 2024).
The importance of XAI is of concern to policy 
makers (European Commission, 2019), AI developers, 
and technology experts, but many end-users are 
not yet aware of it. Thus, simple answers to the 
following questions are needed: 
Why are these explanations 
necessary? Why is this advanced 
technology unreliable? The 
following section outlines three 
fundamental reasons for XAI.
First, AI systems show their 
greatest potential when solving 
complex tasks, which means 
that the solutions provided are 
often complex and difficult 
to understand for users who are not experts in the 
specific subject matter in question. Second, AI 
systems can take over tasks previously delegated 
to humans, effectively «replacing» us in decision-
«If AI these systems make 
decisions on our behalf that 
we may not understand, 
we lose control, making 
the risks evident»
HOW TO CITE:
Bellas, Francisco J. (2025). Explainable artificial intelligence and its key role in education: Promoting critical thinking 
and autonomy in the classrooms. Metode Science Studies Journal, 15(7), e30514.  
https:/ /doi.org/10.7203/metode.15.30514
46 METODE
MONOGRAPH
AI think, therefore AI am
making, thereby compromising our autonomy. 
Consequently, if these systems make decisions on 
our behalf that we may not understand, we lose 
control, making the risks evident. Finally, the answers 
provided by today’s most widely used AI systems, 
which are based on machine learning models, are 
often inaccurate. These computational models 
generate patterns and inferences from data and their 
predictions always carry a probabilistic margin of 
error. For users accustomed to digital technologies, 
this is a new scenario. Traditional software 
applications either simply do their job or they do not, 
with no probabilistic range of correctness.
Consequently, AI systems should, by default, 
include explanations of why they make decisions and 
how reliable they are, so that users remain in control 
and can make responsible use of this technology. 
Such is the need for these explanations that this 
requirement is explicitly provided for in the current AI 
Act (Regulation [UE] 2024/1689), which establishes a 
regulatory framework for the development, marketing, 
and use of AI across the European Union. It also 
complements the General Data Protection Regulation 
(Regulation [UE] 2016/679) and other EU digital laws.
The AI Act does not explicitly stipulate how these 
explanations should be articulated, but addresses 
human oversight, data governance, cybersecurity, and 
transparency, along with the rights to explanations in 
individual decision-making. In Article 13, AI systems 
are required to be designed to be transparent so that 
those who implement them can understand and use 
them correctly. The instructions should be clear 
and include information about 
the supplier, capabilities and 
limitations of the system, and 
any inherent risks. They should 
explain how to interpret the 
results, the default settings and 
potential changes in the system, 
and how to maintain it. The 
instructions should also describe 
how to collect, store, and interpret 
data records.
Furthermore, Article 14 specifies that systems must 
be designed to allow for effective human supervision. 
These measures should be appropriate to the risk and 
context and should be incorporated into the system by 
the provider. AI systems should include mechanisms 
to guide and inform human supervisors so that they 
can make informed decisions on when and how to 
intervene.
Therefore, in the current scenario, the impact 
of XAI is evident not only because it is useful for 
users, but also because it is a legal requirement at the 
European level. In the following section we examine 
explainable AI in more detail.
 ■ TECHNICAL ASPECTS OF EXPLAINABLE AI
Although this is not a technical paper, we need 
to clarify some key aspects of AI to understand 
the complexity of achieving the desired level of 
explainability. Providing an explanation for the output 
of a standard software application is a simple task for 
developers, as it relies on traditional programming 
languages. Such systems execute 
a clear set of instructions, 
making it possible to trace and 
analyse the logic behind each 
result. However, in the case of 
AI systems, the situation is more 
complex.
From a general perspective, 
we can distinguish two main 
technical approaches in AI: 
knowledge-based and data-
driven (Holmes & Tuomi, 2022). In the former, human 
knowledge and experience is represented in a way 
that can be processed by computer programmes, 
mainly through logical rules and probabilistic 
reasoning. These systems were very popular in the 
1980s, but their difficulties in scaling to complex, 
real-world problems have restricted their application. 
Obtaining explanations from knowledge-based 
AI is straightforward, as is the case with standard 
software applications. Data-driven AI, on the other 
Reaching a compromise between how well the system works and 
its interpretability is a fundamental challenge for developers in the 
field of explainable artificial intelligence (XAI).
Canva
Canva
«In some critical fields such 
as education and health, 
knowledge-based AI is still 
preferred, even if this implies 
less precision»
MONOGRAPH
AI think, therefore AI am
   METODE 47
hand, is based on the idea that knowledge can be 
extracted directly from the information contained in 
datasets representing a given problem, by analysing 
patterns and making inferences. Within this approach, 
machine learning is the specific field of study that 
develops algorithms and statistical models. Computer 
systems then use these models to make predictions 
or decisions without the need for explicit instructions. 
Today, we have highly reliable algorithms that build 
models and «learn» hidden patterns in the data. 
This learning process results in a set of numerical 
parameters that characterise the model and define 
its response. As we can imagine, for us, deriving 
explanations from this set of numbers is not as simple 
as deriving explanations from a set of logical rules or 
commands written in standard language. Moreover, 
the greater the number of numerical parameters, the 
greater their complexity and the more reliable their 
«learning». However, this also makes it more difficult 
to obtain explanations for their responses.
The improvement of machine learning techniques 
and their success in solving real-world problems has 
been so significant in recent years that data-driven AI 
has eclipsed knowledge-based AI. However, when 
it comes to explainability, the situation remains 
uncertain, and in some critical fields such as education 
and health, knowledge-based AI is still preferred, even 
if this implies less precision (Khosravi et al., 2022; 
Loh et al., 2022). Currently, many AI researchers and 
developers are actively working on the development 
of computational techniques to derive meaningful 
explanations from data-driven AI (Bennetot et 
al., 2024). Therefore, we should be cautious about 
criticising these approaches because of their limited 
explainability.
 ■ THE KEY CONCEPTS OF EXPLAINABLE AI
It is essential to know the fundamental concepts in the 
field of XAI in order to grasp its scope and complexity, 
which derive from the technical problem outlined 
above. Although experts in the field have not yet 
reached full consensus on unambiguous definitions, 
the terms used here are those more established from a 
general perspective, applicable to different fields of AI. 
Let us start with the main concept associated with AI 
explainability: transparency.
Transparency
Transparency in AI refers to a process with which all 
the information, decisions, decision-making processes 
and assumptions are made available to be shared with 
the stakeholders and this shared information enhances 
the understanding of these stakeholders. (Chaudhry et 
al., 2022).
The relevance of this concept is evident, as it is 
clearly defined as follows in the preamble of the AI Act:
[…] Transparency means that AI systems are developed 
and used in a way that allows appropriate traceability 
and explainability, while making humans aware that 
they communicate or interact with an AI system, as 
well as duly informing deployers of the capabilities and 
limitations of that AI system and affected persons about 
their rights. (European Commission, 2024)
The transparency of an AI system depends on the 
developer, who must design it in such a way that 
no information about the system is hidden. There 
are five key aspects of AI transparency that must be 
considered: (1) data, (2) models, (3) processes, (4) 
outcomes, and (5) purpose. We recommend reviewing 
Jonker (2024) for further details.
Interpretability
This concept primarily refers to the understanding 
that developers can gain from their own models, 
as qualified in this definition by Ali et al. (2023): 
«Interpretability enables developers to delve into 
the model’s decision-making process, boosting their 
confidence in understanding where the model gets its 
results».
AI systems can have two main levels of 
interpretability (Ooge, 2023), directly related to 
the previous section. On the one hand, we have the 
inherently interpretable models. These are simple 
enough for humans to understand directly. Examples 
Professionals such as data scientists and domain-specific specialists 
who use AI for analytics and decision making but who lack a deep 
technical understanding of AI require explanations tailored to their 
specific field yet still presented in accessible, non-technical terms.
48 METODE
MONOGRAPH
AI think, therefore AI am
include those used in knowledge-based AI, and some 
simpler models in data-driven AI. In the field of XAI, 
they are known as «white box» models (Ali et al., 2023).
On the other hand, there are the opaque models, 
which are very accurate but difficult to interpret due 
to their complexity. All of these AI models are data-
driven. As mentioned above, their inner workings are 
based on large sets of «learned» numerical parameters, 
which are applied in a computational model and 
provide predictions from input data. In the field of 
XAI, these are known as «black box» models (Ali et 
al., 2023).
There is a trade-off between model quality and 
interpretability, where simpler models are more 
interpretable, but less accurate for complex tasks. 
Reaching a compromise between how well the system 
works and its level of interpretability is currently the 
main goal of the XAI field.
Explainability
According to TechDispatch (2023), 
«explainability in AI concentrates 
on providing clear and coherent 
explanations for specific model 
predictions or decisions. It aims 
to answer questions like “Why 
did the AI system make this particular prediction?” 
by offering human-understandable justifications 
or reasons for a specific outcome». In this sense, 
explainability also lies with the AI system developer, 
who must explicitly include this feature in the system, 
with the primary aim described in Ali et al. (2023): 
«Explainability provides insight into the deep neural 
networks’ decision to the end-user in order to build 
trust that the AI is making correct and non-biased 
decisions based on facts».
Some authors, such as Miller (2019), use the 
concepts of interpretability and explainability 
interchangeably, but there is an important nuance. 
Interpretability is a passive characteristic: any AI 
model is inherently interpretable or not, to varying 
degrees (Barredo Arrieta et al., 2020). Conversely, 
explainability is an active characteristic: AI models 
are explainable when their developers implement 
mechanisms that clarify or detail their inner workings 
so that users can understand them more easily 
(Barredo Arrieta et al., 2020).
As we can see, transparency, interpretability, 
and explainability depend on the developers of the 
AI system. The first two depend on the technical 
characteristics of the approach adopted, while the 
third depends on the type of information being 
transmitted (Dwivedi, 2023). To achieve the ultimate 
goal of increasing trust in AI systems, the developer 
must provide as much transparency as possible 
and must also strive to strike a balance between 
performance and interpretability: the system must 
be understandable, but also useful, in order to make 
sense (European Commission, 2019). At this point, it 
is important to highlight the key role of the AI Act, 
which extends responsibility to legislators and policy 
makers to create a framework that ensures developers 
understand what is required of them regarding their 
XAI systems.
As we have already mentioned, the most relevant 
aspect of XAI is not on the technical side, but rather, 
is on the human side, since an explanation that is not 
understood is of little or no use. This brings us to the 
fourth basic concept of XAI, comprehensibility.
Understandability
Understandability is the «degree 
to which the provided insights 
can make sense for the targeted 
audience’s domain knowledge» 
(Saeed & Omlin, 2023). This 
concept no longer depends on 
the developer, but on the receiver 
of the explanation, as discussed 
in TechDispatch (2023).
Understandability focuses on the end-users1 – 
on how well they can understand an explanation 
addressed to them and how much it helps them stay 
in control. Therefore, it is a measure of the actual 
usefulness of the XAI. Understandability emphasises 
the need for AI explanations to align with the 
cognitive and contextual needs of the people using 
the technology, ensuring that they can understand 
the system behaviour and outcomes (Ooge, 2023). 
In other words, the information required by a doctor 
using a diagnostic recommendation system differs 
from that required by a teacher using an exercise 
recommendation system, and in turn, both differ from 
the information needed by the user of an autonomous 
vehicle (Figure 1).
 ■ THE ACTORS INVOLVED IN EXPLAINABLE AI
From what we have discussed so far, it seems 
clear that advancing XAI requires the involvement 
of different actors and stakeholders and the 
1  Some authors, such as Biran & Cotton (2017), use the concept of 
interpretability and understandability interchangeably, but as explained 
above, interpretability concerns computational models, while 
understandability concerns the end user.
«Transparency, interpretability, 
and explainability depend 
on the developers of the 
AI system»
MONOGRAPH
AI think, therefore AI am
   METODE 49
encouragement of their collaboration. It is unrealistic 
to place the burden of such an ambitious goal solely 
on developers, or to limit it to a purely legal issue. As 
a starting point, we can follow the approach proposed 
by Saeed & Omlin (2023), which considers five 
perspectives and associates them with three main 
types of actors with distinct roles in XAI.
Legislators and policy makers
Associated with regulatory and social perspectives. 
The EU’s approach to digital regulation is based 
on the fundamental rights of individuals and aims 
to foster innovation by promoting trusted, human-
centred AI. The role of this first group is not just to 
control AI development; it is even more important 
than that. It relates to human governance and 
oversight of AI systems. They are responsible 
for defining laws and policies that promote the 
development and use of XAI, thus helping to ensure 
the transparency and interpretability of AI systems. 
They are also responsible for supporting developers 
in achieving truly useful explainability for users 
(understandability), fostering multidisciplinary 
teams and creating effective channels for citizen 
participation.
Researchers, professionals, and developers
Associated with industrial and model development 
perspectives. They are the technical engine behind 
XAI and the main drivers of progress in this field. For 
this group, it is essential that commercial interests 
are managed with a balance between constraints and 
opportunities, which underscores the importance 
of collaboration with the first group. Their basic 
contribution lies in making the transparency, 
interpretability, explainability, and understandability 
of AI systems a reality.
End-users
Associated with industrial (professional) and social 
perspectives. This is a heterogeneous target group 
that applies AI systems both in their professional 
development and in their daily lives. They are 
the main «jury» of explainability, who determine 
whether an AI system is useful or not. Their 
contribution focuses on promoting the explainability 
and understandability of the AI systems they use, 
selecting those systems that best meet the XAI 
guidelines.
It is important to note that, from a practical point 
of view, the first two groups are also end-users of AI 
within their own domains. Consequently, they are also 
affected by the explainability and understandability of 
the systems they promote and develop. Considering all 
potential AI users, three levels of XAI experience can 
be distinguished.
Firstly, AI novices, individuals who are impacted 
by AI systems and who possess little or no technical 
expertise in this area. They need explanations that 
help them understand the answers AI systems produce, 
so they can maintain control over the decisions and 
understand how their data are used. Examples of 
such users include medical patients, bank customers, 
teachers, politicians, and public decision-makers, 
among others.
Secondly, data users. These are professionals such 
as data scientists and domain-specific specialists 
who use AI for analytics and decision making but do 
not have a deep technical understanding of AI. They 
need specific explanations that allow them to evaluate 
reliability and adjust and compare models. These 
users include doctors, economists, managers, judges, 
and social workers.
And finally, AI experts, specialists (AI researchers 
or engineers) who create and deploy AI models or 
develop explainable AI techniques. They focus on 
interpreting and improving their models to ensure their 
correct functioning, so explainability here is purely 
technical and highly detailed.
Explainability
Interpretability
Transparency
Technical perspective Human perspective
End-usersLegislators
Policy makers
Developers
Understandability
Figure 1. Diagram summarising the two perspectives behind XAI, 
technical and human, with the main actors involved in each one. 
Source: Created by the author.
«Advancing explainable AI requires 
the involvement of different actors 
and stakeholders and the encouragement 
of their collaboration»
50 MÈTODE
MONOGRAPH
AI think, therefore AI am
 ■ AI IN EDUCATION
The previous sections sought to justify the relevance of 
explainable AI in a general way, showing how it affects 
numerous actors with different degrees of knowledge 
about the technology. In the specific case of education, 
XAI goes beyond being a mere technical improvement; 
it is a fundamental requirement for fostering human 
autonomy, trust, and transparency in educational 
environments that increasingly rely on AI tools for 
teaching and learning.
The integration of XAI in educational contexts 
requires rethinking digital skills, in particular those 
related to AI literacy (Flores-Alarcia et al., 2024, 
chapter 2). Teachers need to be able to use AI tools and 
possess the critical thinking skills required to interpret 
their results and ensure they are used ethically. Learners, 
for their part, need support to understand the decisions 
made by AI systems, thus promoting autonomy and 
self-regulated learning.2
Building a transparent, fair, and people-centred AI 
for education means creating systems that are both 
technically sound and contextually appropriate, legally 
compliant, and pedagogically effective. This requires 
continuous collaboration across disciplines, sectors, and 
stakeholders. As AI continues to evolve, so too must 
collective efforts to ensure that its use in education 
supports, rather than replaces, human judgement, 
values, and oversight. 
REFERENCES
Ali, S., Abuhmed, T., El-Sappagh, S., Muhammad, K., Alonso-Moral, J. M., 
Confalonieri, R., Guidotti, R., Del Ser, J., Díaz-Rodríguez, N., & Herrera, F. 
(2023). Explainable artificial intelligence (XAI): What we know and what 
is left to attain trustworthy artificial intelligence. Information Fusion, 99, 
101805. https:/ /doi.org/10.1016/j.inffus.2023.101805
Barredo Arrieta, A., Díaz-Rodríguez, N., Del Ser, J., Bennetot, A., Tabik, S., 
Barbado, A., Garcia, S., Gil-Lopez, S., Molina, D., Benjamins, R., Chatila, 
R., & Herrera, F. (2020). Explainable artificial intelligence (XAI): Concepts, 
taxonomies, opportunities and challenges toward responsible AI. Information 
Fusion, 58, 82–115. https:/ /doi.org/10.1016/j.inffus.2019.12.012
Bennetot, A., Donadello, I., El Qadi El Haouari, A., Dragoni, M., Frossard, 
T., Wagner, B., Sarranti, A., Tulli, S., Trocan, M., Chatila, R., Holzinger, 
A., Garcez, A. D., & Díaz-Rodríguez, N. (2024). A practical tutorial 
on explainable AI techniques. ACM Computing Surveys, 57(2), Article 50. 
https:/ /doi.org/10.1145/3670685
Biran, O., & Cotton, C. (2017). Explanation and justification in machine 
learning: A survey. In IJCAI-17 workshop on explainable AI (XAI) (pp. 8–13), 
vol. 8, N. 1.
Chaudhry, M. A., Cukurova, M., & Luckin, R. (2022). A transparency index 
framework for AI in education. In M. M. Rodrigo, N. Matsuda, A. I. Cristea, 
& V . Dimitrova (Eds). Artificial Intelligence in Education. Posters and Late 
Breaking Results, Workshops and Tutorials, Industry and Innovation 
Tracks, Practitioners’ and Doctoral Consortium. AIED 2022. Lecture Notes 
in Computer Science, vol 13356. Springer. https:/ /doi.org/10.1007/978-
3-031-11647-6_33
Dwivedi, R., Dave, D., Naik H., Singhal, S., Omer, R., Patel, P., Qian, B., Wen, 
Z., Shah, T., Morgan, G., & Ranjan, R. (2023). Explainable AI (XAI): Core 
2  See the European Commission (EC) and Organisation for Economic Co-ope-
ration and Development (OECD) AILit Framework:  
https:/ /ailiteracyframework.org
ideas, techniques, and solutions. ACM Computing Surveys, 55(9), Article 194. 
https:/ /doi.org/10.1145/3561048
European Commission. (2019). Ethics guidelines for trustworthy AI. 
Publications Office of the European Union. https:/ /data.europa.eu/
doi/10.2759/346720
Flores-Alarcia, Ó., & Fornons Casol, L. (2024). Educación e inteligencia 
artificial: Horizontes de transformación. Dykinson.
Holmes, W., & Tuomi, I. (2022). State of the art and practice in AI in education. 
European Journal of Education, 57, 542–570. https:/ /doi.org/10.1111/
ejed.12533
Jonker, A., Gomstyn, A., & McGrath, A., (2024). What is AI transparency? 
https:/ /www.ibm.com/think/topics/ai-transparency
Khosravi, H., Shum, S. B., Chen, G., Conati, C., Tsai, Y .-S., Kay, J., Knight, 
S., Martinez-Maldonado, R., Sadiq, S., & Gašević, D. (2022). Explainable 
artificial intelligence in education. Computers and Education: Artificial 
Intelligence, 3, 100074. https:/ /doi.org/10.1016/j.caeai.2022.100074
Loh, H. W., Ooi, C. P., Seoni, S., Barua, P. D., Molinari, F., & Acharya, U. 
R. (2022). Application of explainable artificial intelligence for healthcare: 
A systematic review of the last decade (2011–2022). Computer Methods 
and Programs in Biomedicine, 226, 107161. https:/ /doi.org/10.1016/j.
cmpb.2022.107161
Longo, L., Brcic, M., Cabitza, F., Choi, J., Confalonieri, R., Del Ser, J., 
Guidotti, R., Hayashi, Y ., Herrera, F., Holzinger, A., Jiang, R., Khosravi, H., 
Lecue, F., Malgieri, G., Páez, A., Samek, W., Schneider, J., Speith, T., & 
Stumpf, S. (2024). Explainable artificial intelligence (XAI) 2.0: A manifesto 
of open challenges and interdisciplinary research directions. Information 
Fusion, 106, 102301. https:/ /doi.org/10.1016/j.inffus.2024.102301
Miller, T. (2019). Explanation in artificial intelligence: Insights from the social 
sciences. Artificial intelligence, 267, 1–38. https:/ /doi.org/10.1016/j.
artint.2018.07.007
Ooge, J. (2023). Explaining artificial intelligence with tailored interactive 
visualisations [Doctoral dissertation]. https:/ /jeroenooge.be/sites/
default/files/2023-10/PhD%20thesis%20Jeroen%20Ooge%20
%28deluxe%29.pdf
Regulation (EU) 2024/1689 of the European Parliament and of the Council 
of 13 June 2024 laying down harmonised rules on artificial intelligence 
and amending Regulations (EC) No 300/2008, (EU) No 167/2013, (EU) 
No 168/2013, (EU) 2018/858, (EU) 2018/1139 and (EU) 2019/2144 
and Directives 2014/90/EU, (EU) 2016/797 and (EU) 2020/1828 (Artificial 
Intelligence Act) (Text with EEA relevance). https:/ /eur-lex.europa.eu/
eli/reg/2024/1689/oj
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 
April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing 
of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing 
Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation) (Text with 
EEA relevance). https:/ /eur-lex.europa.eu/eli/reg/2016/679/oj
Saeed, W., & Omlin, C. (2023). Explainable AI (XAI): A systematic meta-
survey of current challenges and future opportunities. Knowledge-Based 
Systems, 263, 110273. https:/ /doi.org/10.1016/j.knosys.2023.110273
TechDispatch. (2023). Explainable artificial intelligence. European Data 
Protection Supervisor (EDPS). https:/ /www.edps.europa.eu/data-
protection/our-work/publications/techdispatch/2023-11-16-
techdispatch-22023-explainable-artificial-intelligence_en
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
This article summarises the European Digital Education Hub’s squad on 
explainable AI in education (https:/ /data.europa.eu/doi/10.2797/ 
6780469) which I coordinated between August and December 2024. I would 
like to thank all the members of the squad, and the EDEH managers who made 
it possible.
FRANCISCO J. BELLAS. Full professor in the Department of Computer 
Science and Information Technologies (CITIC) at the University of A Coruña 
(Spain). He is a specialist in artificial intelligence applied to robotics with 
more than 20 years of teaching and research experience. He participated in 
the development of the internationally awarded educational robot Robobo and 
leads projects on AI education at pre-university level. He is a member of the 
Galician Regional Government’s group of experts on AI in education and of 
the working group on the same subject in the European Digital Education Hub. ✉ francisco.bellas@udc.es